DOC/ENH: Add documentation and whatsnew entry for ArrowDtype and ArrowExtensionArray (#47854)
pandas-dev/pandas: doc/source/whatsnew/v1.5.0.rst

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _whatsnew_150.enhancements.arrow:

Native PyArrow-backed ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With `Pyarrow <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/index.html>`__ installed, users can now create pandas objects
that are backed by a ``pyarrow.ChunkedArray`` and ``pyarrow.DataType``.

The ``dtype`` argument can accept a string of a `pyarrow data type <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/api/datatypes.html>`__
with ``pyarrow`` in brackets e.g. ``int64[pyarrow]`` or, for pyarrow data types that take parameters, a :class:`ArrowDtype`
initialized with a ``pyarrow.DataType``

.. ipython:: python

    import pyarrow as pa
    ser_float = pd.Series([1.0, 2.0, None], dtype="float32[pyarrow]")
    ser_float

>     ser_list = pd.Series([[1, 2]], dtype=pd.ArrowDtype(pa.list_(pa.int64())))

Reviewer: I'd probably add a short comment here on what we're creating, and maybe add another row to the Series. Maybe when rendered it becomes clearer, but reading just this it feels like it may take some time for readers to understand what you're doing here.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _whatsnew_150.enhancements.arrow:

Native PyArrow-backed ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With `Pyarrow <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/index.html>`__ installed, users can now create pandas objects
that are backed by a ``pyarrow.ChunkedArray`` and ``pyarrow.DataType``.

The ``dtype`` argument can accept a string of a `pyarrow data type <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/api/datatypes.html>`__
with ``pyarrow`` in brackets e.g. ``int64[pyarrow]`` or, for pyarrow data types that take parameters, a :class:`ArrowDtype`
initialized with a ``pyarrow.DataType``

.. ipython:: python

    import pyarrow as pa
    ser_float = pd.Series([1.0, 2.0, None], dtype="float32[pyarrow]")
    ser_float

    list_of_int_type = pd.ArrowDtype(pa.list_(pa.int64()))
    ser_list = pd.Series([[1, 2], [3, None]], dtype=list_of_int_type)
    ser_list

Most operations are supported and have been implemented using `pyarrow compute <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/api/compute.html>`__ functions.
We recommend installing the latest version of PyArrow to access the most recently implemented compute functions.

.. ipython:: python

>     ser_list.take([1, 0])

Reviewer: Looks like variables are cleaned from one block to the next, and sphinx is not happy here for `ser_list` not being defined. Maybe we can merge both blocks and move the comment in between after the block?

Reviewer 2: > Looks like variables are cleaned from one block to the next

FYI, that's not the case, all variables are kept for (at least) a full file, so you can define a variable in one ipython code block, and use it in a next. 
(the reason it was failing was because ArrowDtype wasn't actually yet exposed in the main namespace)

Author: I ended up just combining both blocks anyways.

Native PyArrow-backed ExtensionArray
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With `Pyarrow <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/index.html>`__ installed, users can now create pandas objects
that are backed by a ``pyarrow.ChunkedArray`` and ``pyarrow.DataType``.

The ``dtype`` argument can accept a string of a `pyarrow data type <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/api/datatypes.html>`__
with ``pyarrow`` in brackets e.g. ``int64[pyarrow]`` or, for pyarrow data types that take parameters, a :class:`ArrowDtype`
initialized with a ``pyarrow.DataType``.

.. ipython:: python

    import pyarrow as pa
    ser_float = pd.Series([1.0, 2.0, None], dtype="float32[pyarrow]")
    ser_float

    list_of_int_type = pd.ArrowDtype(pa.list_(pa.int64()))
    ser_list = pd.Series([[1, 2], [3, None]], dtype=list_of_int_type)
    ser_list

    ser_list.take([1, 0])
    ser_float * 5
    ser_float.mean()
    ser_float.dropna()

Most operations are supported and have been implemented using `pyarrow compute <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/python/api/compute.html>`__ functions.
We recommend installing the latest version of PyArrow to access the most recently implemented compute functions.

> This feature is experimental and may change in a future release.

Reviewer 2: I would maybe put this in a warning box to give it a bit more visibility (like you did in the docstring)

Author: Good idea. Changed.

> This feature is experimental and may change in a future release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature is experimental and the API can change in a future release without warning.
```
